Current Fragmentation and Particle Acceleration in Solar Flares
Cargill et. al. 2012.

Main features of flares noted in introduction.
	Energies 10^27-10^32 ergs
	HXR emission on order of seconds, power law above 10 keV due to electrons. Soft-hard-soft typical evolution
	HXR emission predominantly at footpoints but also in corona (Krucker et al. 2008)
	TTM model (see references) implies 10^38 electrons accelerated to 10-100 keV in a few seconds
	Gamma ray emission at footpoints 10-100 MeV

Number and efficiency problems:
	non-relativistic electrons
	number: at least entire coronal electron population needs to be accelerated
	efficiency: ~10% of energy must be in electrons > 10keV

Discussion of braiding and energy dissipation
	Energy injected through footpoint motions, dissipated via reconnection.
	Sequence of stressing, relaxation (diffusion) even with continuous driving
	(See Nordlund and Galsgaard 2012, thesis by Jenny for more info/references)

Self Organised Criticality (SOC)
	See Bak 1999, Lu and Hamilton 1991, others
	Non-physical rules for stressing and relaxation of coronal field yield power laws in energy
	Has since been put into (somewhat?) more physical foundation (see e.g. Charbonneau et al 2001)
	Need good connection between SOC and MHD simulations to properly use.

Standard Flare Model
	Eruption drives flare energy release
	See Kopp and Pneuman 1976, Cargill and Priest 1982 for current sheet to explain post flare loops (way around eruption?)
	probably only one way of creating solar flares, rather than explanation for all.

Resistivity and Current sheet size
	Amount of dissipation roughly independent of resistivity (see Nordlund and Galsgaard 1996, 2012)
	Energy dissipated ~ A*Q ~ Lds*Q, Q ~ eta*J^2 ~ 1/ds, hence independent of resistivity (and thus resolution)
	Hence electric field ~eta*J is approximately independent of current sheet thickness

Current Sheets and Acceleration:
	Can produce three ways of accelerating particles: shocks, turbulence, DC electric field
	Shocks good option in other astrophysical phenomena, but coronal field too strong to create fast shocks for plasma outflows (need to be faster than fast mode speed, strong B field prohibits this).
	Can create slow shocks, or shocks when encountering other magnetic field but these are not effective at accelerating
	See Longcope et al 2010, Isenberg 1986, Kundu et al 1989 (probably many others)
	Turbulence has issues with actually being observed (or being there), requirement for high efficiency (energy needs to be transferred from jet to turbulence, then to particles
	See Lazarian 2012, Petrosian 2012

DC electric field
	Particle acceleration in fragmented current sheet (Onofri et al 2006, Dmitruk et al 2003, etc) show many sites of acceleration
	most efficient on electrons (accelerate in 100 microseconds), ions slower to accelerate
	Test particles in MHD code gain more energy than there is free magnetic energy to begin with. Creates problems for accelerating ions
	Need feedback from energetic electrons to make realistic picture
	PIC simulations support general idea (Drake et al 2006, Daughton et al 2011), however not realistic enough due to big separation of scales (too computationally intensive in 3d)
	2d PIC simulations with many islands shows higher energy particles gain more energy - indicates Fermi process - energy gain proportional to energy
	Behind limb observations seem to support this PIC picture (Krucker 2010?)

Braided field acceleration
	See Turkmani et al 2005,2006 and Cargill et al 2006
	Seems to be too efficient (spectra too hard)
	Due to test particles not having feedback onto MHD simulations
	May also be due to poor resolution creating large current sheets, lots of sites for acceleration

Kink unstable loop
	See Gordovskyy and Browning 2011
	Results similar to braiding, slightly softer spectra, 5% efficiency in acceleration so feedback may not be such an issue
	This may be due to smaller energy release, higher resolution

SOC accelertion sites
	See Arzner and Vlahos 2004
	Consists of 'nodes' where particles are accelerated, use Monte Carlo, assume particles jump between nodes get power law distribution
	Gaussian distribution initial conditions give Fermi-like acceleration (?)
	Seems like power laws are easy to obtain, need some way to differentiate mechanisms from observations (own comment)


